# 1. Record architecture decisions

Date: 2018-12-05

## Status

Accepted

## Context

We need to record the architectural decisions made on this project. A lot of the reasoning behind decisions made historically on this project have been lost, and we risk perpetuating that situation unless we record the conversations we are having around decisions we make.

## Decision

We will use Lightweight Architecture Decision Records, as described by [Michael Nygard](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions) and [ThoughtWorks](https://www.thoughtworks.com/radar/techniques/lightweight-architecture-decision-records).

A template can be found at `doc/decisions/0000-template.md`, which is slightly modified version of the file generated by Nat Pryce's [Lightweight ADR toolset](https://github.com/npryce/adr-tools).

We should only record "significant" decisions, not every single thing we do. Some examples of "significant" decisions might be:

1) Adding new infrastructure to the service.
3) Fundamental changes to the data model.
2) Removing a feature or capability.

"Significant" decisions could include those where we opt *not* to undertake a piece of work (e.g. adding infrastructure) in lieu of a more simple solution.

All developers will be responsible for writing architectural decision records when they recognise it is appropraite to create a durable record of the context and conversation around a particular piece of work. All other developers will be responsible for reading, commenting on, and updating architectural decision records as appropriate. Conversations should take place on the GitHub Pull Request rather than other mediums, as this will keep all of the relevant points discoverable. Key points raised in discussion should be integrated into the architectural decision record, if appropriate.

Key Benefits
------------
* A durable record of key decisions made during the implementation of the project.

Key Drawbacks
-------------
* Developers will need to make time to record, and receive feedback on, key architectural decisions.


## Alternatives

We could continue not to document our key decisions in a consistent format. This might be easier for developers in their day-to-day work in the short- to medium- term, as there is a reduced requirement for work documenting decisions before implementation happens. In the long term, and for future developers who might join the team, there might be a loss of time that occurs for seemingly intangible reasons, where the root cause is actually a lack of understanding of historical decisions that have been taken.


## Consequences

All developers should spend about five minutes reading Michael Nygard's article, linked above.
